---
title: Untitled
date: 2026-07-13
---

What do I want to write about today?

# The Wealth of Nations
The Wealth of Nations has been on my mind. One of the most interesting thing that Adam Smith said was that profit seekers are more aware of their own self-interest than laborers. 

"Their \[employers'\] superiority over the country gentleman is, not so much in their knowledge of the public interest, as in their having a better knowledge of their own interest than he has of his. It is by this superior knowldge of their own interest that they have frequently imposed upon his generosity, and persuaded him to give up both his own interest and that of the public, from a very simple but honest conviction, that their interest, and not his, was the interest of the public."

What does that mean?
- The employers have a better understanding of their own self-interest. They tell their employees that it is in their own self-interest to do what the employer wants. 
- The employers persuade the employees to *give up their own interest*.
- I'm not totally sure what the full meaning of this is, but it stands out to me.

What stuck out to me:
- This conclusion comes at the end of Book I of The Wealth of Nations, after a series of chapters discussing what makes up price (Smith argues there are three components to price: rent, wages, and profit). 
  - The interests of those who live by rent and wages benefit from the public good:
    1. Those who live by rent (landlords, building owners, landowners) benefit when the economy is good because there is more money to pay rent, more demand for land that can be used for commercial purposes
    2. Those who live by wages benefit from a strong economy because there are more jobs, and demand for more jobs raises wages.

- The interests of those who live by profit, however, are NOT as directly tied to the pubulic good as the first two groups.
  - Profiteers are motivated to widen their market and eliminate the competition. Smith argues that competition facilitates a healthy economy. 

What stuck out to me about Smith's argument was that the difference between employers and employees comes down to KNOWLEDGE OF THEIR OWN SELF-INTEREST. 

This is a unique idea I haven't heard phrased this way before, so I'm still trying wrap my head around exactly what he meant by this.


Employees:
- What is in their self-interest? 
  - Higher wages - we like getting raises and higher salaries (as long as it translates to a better quality of life)
  - Demand for my skills (which translates into higher wages - more demand = more precious price)
  - Work life aside, what's in my self-interest? Spending time with family, relaxation, hobbies, having fun, eating well, sleeping well, "happiness", lack of pain
  - Less time doing what I don't want to do, more time doing what I do want to do.
- What does increased knowledge of their own self-interest mean?
  - I recognize when my needs are not being met. I recognize when I don't feel good. 
- What does a lack of knowledge of their own self-interest mean?
  - I think too much. I rationalize too much. I don't acknowledge when I feel bad. 

Employers:
- What is in their self-interest?
  - Higher profits: lower cost of wages, lower cost of rent, less competition, wider market
  - More productive laborers - less time spent for the same output, or more time spent for more output at a lower price
- What does increased knowledge of their own self-interest mean?
  - I look for ways to increase my profit, either by decreasing the profits of others (narrowing competition) or saving on my own costs (lower wages, finding suckers)
- What does a decrease in knowledge (or lack of knowledge) of their own self-interest mean?
  - I don't seek profit? I pay higher wages for less output? 

# AI - or not using AI
Claude Code has felt like magic. It's incredible to me that at this point, as long as I have a good plan for what I want my software to do, AI can continue uninterrupted on a task without any intervention on my part. I haven't had to dig into ancient StackOverflow threads to debug some weird error message that only I seemed to have. And thank God that I haven't had to open a visual C++ debugger like I did in school to hunt down the cause of a dreaded segfault, or to find out why a null pointer was being dereferenced when IT SHOULD NOT BE NULL, I SWEAR. 

My one tool for software development is Claude Code. I've gotten into a routine of planning a feature with Claude, reviewing its plan, making adjustments, and then simply typing "go" to kick of a team of multiple subagents that can work on multiple complicated features in parallel. I can leave my desk for an hour, make a cup of coffee or get some lunch, then come back to see everything working (mostly) perfectly and all of my tests green. I'll give a quick glance at the PRs that Claude's agents raise (though I never really look at the code that closely), say "ship it", and just like that, I've completed a feature in an hour that would have taken me weeks just a few years ago. If you had told me when I was a university student that this was the future of software engineering, I wouldn't have believed you. 

# AI has made me a better writer
AI can generate massive amounts of text in very little time. By now, most people are pretty good at detecting AI writing (my suspicions raise any time I see an emdash). There's just a certain style and pacing to it. Even when it's told to "act as a (fill in a generic title like finance expert, life coach, designer here)", we can still tell. Something just doesn't sound right. Sure, all the sentences are complete, the spelling's perfect, and the grammar is pristine without even so much as a semicolon out of place. I could ask any AI to give me an essay on any topic in the world, and in seconds I'll have prose that would have taken any graduate student weeks to produce. But something is still not quite right.

When I read an essay or book, I'm not just interested in the *information* that I can get from the text. That's just one half of the coin. Good writing lets me get into the *mind* of the author. I may not agree with what the author says, but I get to see the world through their eyes for a little bit. For every good book I read where the author was intentional and put *themselves* into the writing, I walk away with a new perspective that changes how I view the world. That's what good writing does. It challenges what we believe to be true and shows us that there are different ways of looking at things.

Now, I've read a lot of AI-generated text. I've asked it thousands of questions whose answers I knew I could reliably get from AI-generated answsers. 
